# ClearView Story
## Our Mission
Diversity Cyber Council (https://www.diversitycybercouncil.com/) is a 501c3 Non-Profit that
serves under-represented demographics in the tech industry by facilitating education, training,
and staffing opportunities to establish a sustainable and diverse talent pipeline to the workforce. Throughout the years, the industry has dealt with issues such as lack of impactful metrics that identify and reduce potential biases in the job candidate hiring and interview process and redundancy and ineffectiveness of the traditional applicant tracking software matching viable candidates with job descriptions. We have come up with a solution which aims to minimize subjectivity, focusing on objective criteria to ensure fairness and consistency.

## Our Vision
ClearView is a supplemental HR platform that, by using AI technology, anonymizes candidate information while highlighting objective skills and qualifying experience to reduce bias in the hiring process. ClearView wants to enhance inclusion and representation in the tech industry through training, mentoring, networking and visibility programs. ClearView wants to enable DEI consultants to shadow employer interviews to rate the interviewer and report findings to executive management in an effort to proactively and strategically reduce bias in the interview process.

## Our Goal
Our goal is to establish a sustainable and diverse talent pipeline that extends career equity to underrepresented demographics by providing access to competent training programs that lead to direct employment opportunities. We want to help recruiters reduce the time spent on sourcing and screening, allow them to connect with top talent faster, while improving overall hiring outcomes. Candidates alike will benefit from a much efficient and accessible job search process, by providing better matching and faster feedback.

## Our Strategy
We aim to create a system that is focusing on user-experience, compliant to the latest data protection policies and accommodating the needs of the recruiters and job seekers alike. Our architecture will focus on data integrity and consistency, elasticity(as the system will be used by multiple clients with different architectural systems) and observability. Along these characteristics, our system will be leveraging on AI-driven automation to streamline the hiring process for all persons involved. We are concentrating on the specific use of AI to come with a solution to the discrimination issues that can occur in the hiring process: by anonymizing the CVs and protecting the candidate's data until the recruiters are certain their interest in that candidate is genuine. We are prioritizing the performance of the application through automated tests, the confidentiality of the data is assured by the anonymization algorithm and the candidates' data is only accessible to the recruiters only after paying a fee to "unlock" the profile. By adhering to the highest standards of the industry, our system can position itself as a leading solution.


## Competitors and market share
The market for recruiting applications which integrate AI technology is experiencing a significant growth due to multiple factors such as the rapid expansion of AI and machine learning,  the ever-increasing job market and compliancy to labor laws and anti-discrimination policies. The global HR and recruitment services market was valued at $868.8 billion at the end of 2023, a 2.6% increase from the previous year. The staffing and recruitment market is expected to grow up to $2,031.34 billion by 2031, and, with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic still felt today, the online recruitment market is expected to grow from $34 billion in 2023 to $58 billion by 2032. Recruiting applications are becoming a necessity due to the high amount of candidates and the short time a company has to find the right person. As the process for selecting the right candidate is very rigorous and slow, the idea to integrate an AI tool in the recruiting process managed to automate and simplify it, by reducing the time and effort for both recruiters and job seekers, and also allowing the recruitment process to be more effective, scalable and consistent. Considering the above, there is no surprise to see many competitors in this market, such as LinkedIn Talent Solutions, Indeed, ZipRecruiter or HireVue, always looking to develop the best software. However, new systems should always aim to improve existing software and come up with innovations to keep up with the ongoing demands. A thorough analysis of the competitors and the market is crucial to understand competitor strengths, identify market gaps cand come up with a product that fits the market and capture the probable functionalities that can appear in the ever-changing technology world.